21 Must Eat Local Foods When You Visit Jakarta, Indonesia

Many of the foods in Jakarta city have been brought in from various parts of Indonesia and been adapted to the region. For the sake of simplicity, I will only be highlighting common foods that can be found here, even though there is an endless variation if you just venture out of Jakarta.

1. Pisang Goreng Sambal Roa (Fried Banana with Chili)
must eat jakarta food pisang goreng sambal
Pisang Goreng is a deep fried batter fritter and in Indonesia, is accompanied with Sambal chili. The banana used in Jakarta is not overly ripe and sweet unlike Singapore, still retaining a starchy firm body. The sambal roa is made with fish and adds extreme spicy kick. Comes with fritters as well for added crunch and is a popular snack for many locals.

Recommended Stall:

Mr Banana Pisang Goreng Pontianak Uya Kuya: Jembatan ITC Mall Ambassador No. 8, Jl. Prof. Dr. Satrio, Kuningan
2. Gorengan (Fried Foods)
jakarta food-09087007
Gorengan literally means ‘fried things’, which is what this popular push cart (geropak) sells. All sorts of ingredients are deep fried and sold, including yam, pineapple,  Tempeh (fermented soy beans), tofu, spring rolls and many others. No doubt unhealthy and a precursor for a heart attack as the oil is re-fried an unknown number of times. Reused oil always seems to taste better.

The gorengan vendors by the road are life-savers, providing quick snacks for local motorists who are more often then not stuck in the infamous Jakarta traffic jams that can last hours. These ubiquitious carts are spread across many roads in Jakarta and it’s hard to miss.

Recommended Stall:

Aneka Gorengan: Pasaraya Grande, Lantai Lower Ground, Dapuraya, Jl. Iskandarsyah II, Melawai, Jakarta
3. Otak-Otak (Brain-Brain Fish Cake)
jakarta food-09087001 must eat jakarta food otak-otak
Otak-Otak is popular in Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore but of course with their variations. I find the Indonesian version to differ the most from the other regions, being mostly pale whitish in color with only little or no chili within the fish paste mix itself. The Jakarta otak fish paste is mostly made with ikan tenggiri (wahoo fish), coconut milk, lemongrass and spices, and is grilled or steamed in banana leaf like other variations of otak for added fragrance.

Otak literally means ‘brain’, which could be derived from the idea that this dish looks like a soft, squishy fish brain.

The Jakarta version however also sees the use of spicy peanut sauce that the otak-otak is dipped in. You can also find otak-otak stalls setup along the street or near bus stops that cater to passerbys.

Recommended Stall: 

Otak-Otak Sangaji: Jl A.M. Sangaji, Petojo, Jakarta, Indonesia
4. Bakpao (Meat Bun)
jakarta food-09076022
Bakpao is adopted from the Hokkien name 肉包, which literally means meat dumpling or bun. Originally of Chinese origin from the many Hokkiens living in Indonesia, Bakpao’s initial recipe used pork meat, while many Indonesians have adapted the Bakpao to be filled with other Muslim friendly ingredients like Chicken or vegetables.

The skin is made with dough and after being stuffed, is left to expand from being steamed.

Recommended Stall:

Bakpao Lombobattang: Jl. Boulevard Raya PD9 No. 11, Kelapa Gading, Jakarta, Indonesia

5. Ketoprak Jakarta
ketoprak jakarta must eat food
Photo: oracleandtarotgoddess.wordpress.com

Ketoprak is another typical street food in Jakarta but has also spread across Java with its  popularity. The vegetarian Ketoprak consists of tofu, lontong (compressed rice cake), beehoon, boiled egg, bean sprouts and cabbage, doused in peanut sauce and topped with fried shallots and kerupuk (deep-fried flavoured rice crackers).

You may also request for the level of spiciness you desire in each individual Ketoprak in most places, with a choice of mild, medium or burn your tongue off.